# Patch 3664 (December 21st, 2016)

### Bugs

- Removed deploy ability tooltip from Aeon T3 Mobile Artillery
- Fixed typos in two keybind descriptions
- Fixed Selen cloak being enabled out of the factory while moving, and further improved usability.
- Fixed civilians not always revealing for all players on map start
- Fixed beam weapons sometimes colliding incorrectly with projectiles
- Fixed sim slowdown when ordering mex cap with hundreds of engineers
- Fixed reclaim beam not penetrating water
- Fixed some remaining issues with the Reclaim overlay: Shifting while zooming/panning, and 'ghost' labels for props that are gone, as well as large performance improvement
- Fixed invalid preferences entries invalidating the game's share condition

### Gameplay

- Changed the ground weapon to be primary on Cybran switch-tech mobile AA units (T1, T3, Cruiser). This has no effect other than to allow attack-moving to work properly, stopping at the right range better.
- Ground fire is now set as the default firing state for all units
- Added a dummy weapon to units such as T2 Flak and Mobile Shields. This allows them to not run blindly in when a group of units is told to attack-move.

### UI

- New feature: Options setting is now available which will allow you to select your language from those available in FAF. Prompts for game restart.
- New feature: Options setting is now available that lets you choose the maximum number of reclaim labels allowed on-screen. Higher values cause significant FPS slowdown while the overlay is active.
- Removed Options toggle for reclaim overlay enable/disable. Simply unbinding it achieves the same thing.
- Redefined the default key bindings for Hotbuild to match a widely used community standard. This won't affect people who have non-default bindings set. Details found here: http://wiki.faforever.com/index.php?title=File:Hotbuild-layout-en.png
- New feature: Icons in the build and command menus for units will now show the keyboard shortcut assigned to them. Thanks to Brainwashed (AKA Washy/Myxir)!
- New feature: Icons in the selection menu are now sorted according to tech level and unit type. More thanks to Brainwashed!

### Coop

- Fixed a whole bunch of videos
- Fixed score screen so it works with coop
- Added a Feedback button for easier reporting of issues
- Giving units to an ally no longer breaks objectives
- Allowed armies to participate properly in objective requirements
- Fixed all AIs being set as UEF in coop
- Fixed Aeon Palace Shield breaking when given to an ally, and rebalanced it a little
- Fixed players other than the primary being unable to complete certain objectives

### Lobby

- New feature: Ability to click on the game title to update it, both in the lobby, and in the client's Find Games tab
- New feature: Closed slot - Spawn Mex. This option is used for the adaptive maps, letting a slot be turned on for mexes but not a player spawn
- Improved lobby setting persistence interaction with maps that introduce their own options
- Corrected "to observers" tooltip occurring twice
- Display mean rating in the rating tooltip, rather than minimum. Also use player name in that tooltip.
- Fixed closed spots showing an empty box for newly joined players, breaking the lobby
- Renamed 'Random' spawn option to 'Random - Unbalanced' for the sake of clarity
- Added ability for certain maps to modify the reclaim value of props
- Private messages now show 'From' and 'To' to make communication clearer

### Other

- Added Tamazight translation to FAF
- Improved a large number of Spanish translations
- Updated maps blacklist
- Fixed a shader error which cause water to render with jagged edges on some maps

### Contributors

- Arifi
- Brainwashed
- CookieNoob
- Crotalus
- Downlord
- Exotic-Retard
- IceDreamer
- Speed2
- TheKeyBlue
- Uveso
