# Game version 3746 (6th of November, 2022)

I'd like to show my appreciation to those that made a friendly report on what was broken. We tackled
the majority of the issues, with the exception of the resource button in the diplomacy tab. We disabled
that for now.

As an alternative you can also share resources via the scoreboard. The default scoreboard supports
this too by ctrl / shift clicking on the resources of an ally. See also the tooltips.

I was also informed that the author of Economy Manager released a patch, it is now compatible again. For
those that use the range ring preview you can download a UI mod called 'Build Range Preview' made by Sheikah.

With thanks to 4z0t and Sheikah for their help in writing this hotfix,

With kind regards,

Jip

## Features

- (#4358) Allow reclaim overview to be customizeable
  You can now enable / disable batching via the game options. It is part of the
  interface section. You can also scale the text of the labels. Note that
  excessive scaling doesn't work properly with batching.

  It is highly recommended to enable batching for low-end systems.

## Bug fixes

- (#4348) Fix attack ping cursor being stuck
  Occured when you tried to issue an attack ping.

- (#4353) Update Nomad shaders to the latest version
  As part of a series of steps to remove shaders from the Nomads repository. We can't
  update our shaders unless we update theirs too. Instead, we now migrate the Nomads
  shaders into the base repository and remove the version in Nomads.

  This should fix graphics issues that people are experiencing.

- (#4354) Fix cursor for text message
  Occured when you tried to issue a text ping

- (#4354) Fix decals not showing for strategic launcher

- (#4352) Re-introduce the zoom pop hotkey
  This was removed on accident

- (#4355) Rating now shows properly on the scoreboard again

- (#4359, #4363) Fix hotbuild being unable to reset the cycle properly

- (#4361) Fix error when spawning in units

- (#4362) Fix air units not sinking
  This was not related to the patch, but we included it anyhow. Transports would sometimes be unable to sink
  properly, especially when they are landed on water.

## Contributors

- 4z0t (#4363)
- Jip (#4348, #4353, #4354, #4352, #4355, #4359, #4362, #4361, #4358)
