# Game version 3747 (15th of November, 2022)

## Features

- (#4377, #4380) Improve reclaim overview
    Adjusts the colors, scaling and depth to better represent what is valuable.

- (#4387) Add toggle to enable / disable always showing splash damage
    It is off by default, you can find the toggle in the game options -> interface -> cursor features

- (#4393) Paint feature for observers
    Observers can now paint on the map and other observers can view each others paintings. Useful for
    casting to communicate to your viewers and fellow casters.

    Works by pressing the `ALT` key, can be adjusted in the game options.

    This feature also works in replays.

- (#4391) Improve rendering quality of water
    Slightly adjusts how water looks like in-game to make it look better overall

- (#4390, #4409) Add in missing tooltips for game options
    All the game options should now have a consistent tooltip.

- (#4385) Change default aix multiplier values
    Especially the AIs that can be found in the vault become complete beasts when they have
    twice the resources and build time. The default multiplier is now set to 1.5

    Note that you can change the AI multipliers in the lobby options

- (#4406) Prefetch session and unit assets
    Decreases the loading time when launching through the lobby. Assets of units are loaded
    as you play to reduce stuttering of the game.

    This is an experimental change.

- (#4405) Tweak network parameters
    Reduce the amount of lag that players experience by reducing the delay when messages are send.

    This is an experimental change.

## Bug fixes

- (#4379) Fix weapon priorities not working for units that can snipe

- (#4367) Fix the UEF factory unit build animations

- (#4367) Fix the cheat window build preview hanging around

- (#4370) Fix the resource sharing panel
    The 'resources' button is now available again in the diplomacy panel

- (#4306) Fix SubtractCurrentEngineer and formatting in base manager

- (#4388) Revert accidental footprint changes of Titan, Loya and Ilsa

- (#4375) Fix TMDs trying to shoot down missiles that are too nearby
    They now have a minimal firing range, it prevents them from trying to hit missiles
    that they can't find a firing solution regardless

- (#4398) Fix and update recall feature
    In particular, fixes a few glitches that people could apply to influence the results.

- (#4407) Scenario Framework GetRandomEntry fix

- (#4408) Slightly reduce mods manager size
    Fixes the overlap of the last mod in the list with the search bar

## Other changes

- (#4366) Add slight transparent background to changelog

- (#4369) Add guard for validation of LayoutHelpers
    It would otherwise spam the logs, causing a delay

## Contributors

- ErikMekkes (#4379)
- Relent0r (#4385)
- BlackYps (#4391)
- 4z0t (#4306, #4407)
- Hdt80bro (#4377, #4370, #4369, #4398, #4409)
- Jip (#4348, #4367, #4366, #4380, #4387, #4389, #4393, #4390, #4406, #4405, #4408, #4375, #4388)
