# Game version 3764 (29th of July, 2023)

See the patch notes of 3762 and 3758 for the full patch notes.

With thanks to all those that took the time to report issues and participate in feedback sessions,

Jip

## Features

- (#5264) Enhancements to the unit restrictions menu

  - Filters out dummy units
  - Filters out insignificant units
  - Fixes various bugs

- (#5269) Enhancements to the unit cheat menu

  - Add unit count input
  - Add faction logo to a unit
  - Add tech level  to a unit
  - Improve readability of blueprint id
  - Fix various styling issues

- (#5274) Allow tree groups to block a construction site

  Based on player feedback, tree groups now obstruct construction sites and are therefore reclaimed by the engineers

  This is not to be confused with 'broken tree groups'. A tree group that is broken is split into individual trees. Once broken, these individual trees no longer block the construction site

- (#5275) Additional hotkeys to unpause or pause all units

  These new hotkeys allow you to express your intentions when (un)pausing a selection of units, especially when only a few of them need to be paused or unpaused

- (#5276) Additional hotkeys to surface or submerge all units

  These new hotkeys allow you to express your intentions when surfacing or submerging a selection of units, especially when only a few of them are submerged or surfaced

## Bug fixes

- (#5290) Resolved the issue with the navigational mesh causing crashes during the save-load sequence

  Most notable when playing the campaign alone. The navigational mesh was written as a large cycle. As a consequence, once the navigational mesh was generated the save process would be unable to serialize it and crash the game

- (#5291) Fix the Ythotha storm discriminating allied units and patches of ground

  There was a bug that would prevent the Ythotha storm from firing upon allied units. As a result, the storm would only deal damage to hostile units. Now, the storm treats all units and ground patches equally, inflicting damage without bias.

- (#5277) Prevent the intel recharge thread from hijacking the work progress bar

  Most notable with the Cybran ACU once he has the stealth enhancement. This prevents the chaotic behavior when multiple Lua threads are trying to claim the progress bar

- (#5282) Adjusted the positioning of tech 3 anti-air units in formations

  The Bouncer and the Lightning tank have a direct fire weapon. As a result, they were considered to be a direct fire unit by the formations script. They are now recognized as anti-air units and therefore end up at the middle or the back of the formation like other anti-air units

- (#5285) Remove the ability to cap Tech 3 air factories

  The previous hotfix (3763) was unexpected and this change wasn't supposed to go live immediately. Regardless, we understood the feedback and are removing the behavior again

- (#5287) Sanitize the anti-surface threat value of ACUs

- (#5292) Fix a bug where Seraphim torpedo bombers can trick torpedo defenses

## Other changes

- (#5283) Add platoon form callbacks for conditional builds

## Contributors

- HUSSAR (#5264, #5269)
- Jip (#5274, #5275, #5282, #5277, #5276, #5285, #5291, #5290, #5292)
- Relent0r (#5287)
- speed2 (#5283)
