# Game version 3767 (17th of September, 2023)

Please refer to the notes of versions 3765 and 3766 for the full patch notes.

With gratitude to all those who took the time to report issues,

Jip

## Features

- (#5427) Introduce a basic visualizer of the performance metrics that we gather as players play the game.
- (#5448) Generate additional metadata when generating markers for AIs.
- (#5422) Introduce a resource deposit grid for the AI.

This grid allows for computationally efficient lookups for the AI to scan the environment for resource deposits.

## Bug fixes

### Beams that miss

We examined all tech 1 and tech 2 naval units and found that some had the ability to reliably evade beam weapons, with one particular submarine even doing so without moving.

The Seraphim destroyer should now be able to reliably hit all tech 1 and tech 2 naval units with its beam weaponry.

Additionally, the Galactic Colossus can no longer evade the beams and should now be hit reliably, especially by the Spiderbot.

### Other bug fixes

- (#5437) Fixed units being able to miss the Galactic Colossus while it is being constructed.
- (0883d0c) Fixed errors when an AI would be defeated.
- (0fecc7d) Fixed tree groups breaking when building structures.
- (#5412) Quickly fixed an issue where coop had trouble understanding the mobile factories.
- (#5441) Fixed the AI misinterpreting blank markers.

## Contributors

With thanks to the following individuals who contributed through coding:

- Relent0r
- Jip
- Eddie
- Clyfordv (Slicknixon)
- Dhomie (Grandpa Sawyer)

With thanks to the following individuals who contributed through model, texture, and effect changes:

- MadMax
- Jip

And last but certainly not least, with thanks to those who took part in constructive discussions:

- A-Army
- Yolo-
