# Game version 3777 (24th of December, 2023)

A quick intermediate patch that fixes a few long standing bugs. 

With gratitude to all those who took the time to report issues,

Happy holidays for those that celebrate them,

Jip

## Balance

- (#5737) The Bulwark now has a dummy weapon, like other shields

The range of the dummy weapon indicates where the shield hits the water line. The dummy weapon prevents the Bulwark from sailing right into the enemy fleet when you issue an attack move order. They roughly remain at the same range as frigates.

- (#5739) Reduce the selection priority of the Scathis

The Scathis now has the same selection priority as the other experimental artillery.

- (#5741) Fix bombers with multiple unpropelled ordinance from being able to track the target while dropping the ordinance

This primarily impacts the Zeus, Scorcher and the Janus. The behavior is only different when the target is trying to evade the bomber. The overall behavior should be more consistent now with that of other bombers.

- (#5731) Enhancements are now taken into account when dispersing veterancy.
- (#5731) Enhancements are now taken into account when computing the mass value of a wreck.

- (#5679) Move the teleport enhancement to the left arm for the UEF ACU

- (#5686) Rework of the Torrent

The Aeon tech 3 missile ship is now cheaper to build. It now fires more missile that deal less damage but in a larger damage radius. The unit is now more equipped to overwhelm tactical missile defenses and deal damage in a wide area surrounding the target.

- (#5769) Rework of strategic missile submarines

All non-experimental units with strategic missile launchers now have a 10 second reload time on their strategic missile launchers. The stationary strategic missile launchers were already affected by this reload time. It primarily applies to the strategic submarines and the Seraphim battleship.

- (#5715) Increase the range of the stealth field of the Deceiver by 1

Unlike what the game makes you believe, intel works in a grid-like fashion. The cell size of stealth field intel is 4. Therefore the previous increase of the radius from 20 to 23 has effectively no impact. The Deceiver now receives the buff it was intended to receive after increasing the vision range of a wide range of units.

## Features

- (056106) Add a game option to tweak the minimal frametime

With this option you can try to match your framerate with the (high) refresh rate of monitors. Using the option may introduce tearing.

Note that the game is often CPU-bound and not GPU-bound.

- (#5725) Finetune the damage per second (dps) calculations in the unit preview

These calculations are only visible when the game option 'Display more unit stats' is enabled'.

- (#5748) Add support for external factories to the repeat build toggle

You can now toggle the repeat build flag while you have the primary unit (e.g., the Fatboy) selected.

## Bug fixes

- (#5742, #5727, #5722) Various units are no longer able to evade beam weapons

- (9eeb38) Fix the wrong affinity mask being applied when a computer between 6 to 16 compute cores

This will noticeable impact the framerate of users.

- (#5761) Fix a bug that could make the build queue unresponsive

A bug that was introduced two years ago. With thanks to the player named 'silentNoob' for his extensive efforts to try and document the bug.

- (#5756) Fix shields warping across the map for 1/10th of a second as they are created.

- (#5717) Fix various bugs in the firing cycle of weapons

Most notable:

- The UEF ACU no longer fires a second tactical missile at the same target when it has the full build suite.
- The Lightning tank, Bouncer and Cougar should no longer be able to rapid fire when giving target-changing orders (such as a stop order).
- The Spearhead now fires exactly once every 10 seconds.
- Units that pack and unpack no longer pack or unpack twice in a row.

- (#5732) Fix mobile factories showing an infinite build time

- (#5740) Fix the Seraphim tech 3 mobile artillery being unable to fire backwards

- (#5767) Fix for units that linger while being built and the mobile factory is destroyed

The lingering unit may not have been visible, but it does have gameplay impact. The lingering unit could for example block the placement for structures.

- (#5769) Fix the bug where the UEF Strategic Missile Submarine is able to fire multiple missiles in a single salvo

This could give the unit a negative missile silo count. The negative count would trigger all sorts of other bugs, such as the ability to launch missiles indefinitely.

- (#5719) Fix the formations of mobile land to air units

As a quick example, the Cybran Tech 1 MAA was considered a tank and would therefore always be at the front of the formation.

- (6a3248) Fix resources not being created on some generated maps

- (#5718) Fix the Atlantis being unselectable while being built

- (#55) Fix projectiles that split being able to pierce shields

## Graphics

- (#5758) Improve the charge and launch effects of the Yolona Oss

- (#5738) Match the water absorption of the terrain with the absorption of units

- (#5745) Improve the build animation of the Cybran naval factories

The build arms are now animated and only extend as far as the size of the unit that they are building.

- (#5734) Improve the water reflection of the sun

- (#5726) Fix various bugs in the PBR shaders

## Other changes

- (#5762, #5721) Split the changelog across multiple files

The original changelog file was so large it would almost turn into a singularity that would make generative AI blush.

- (#5672) Reduce overhead of the base classes of Cybran units

- (#5664) Reduce overhead of the Cybran nano darts projectiles

- (#5733) Allow the display of a build rate of 1

Primarily applies to the Mantis and the Siren.

## Contributors

With thanks to the following people who contributed through coding:

- Basilisk3
- BlackYps
- Jip
- 4z0t
- lL1l1
- Rowey

With thanks to the following people who contributed through model, texture, description and effect changes:

- Balthazar

With thanks to the following people who contributed through binary patches:

- hdt80bro

And, last but certainly not least - with thanks to those that took part in constructive discussions:

- silentNoob
