# Game Version 3777 (24th of December, 2023)

A hotfix addressing lingering issues of the year 2023.

With gratitude to all those who took the time to report issues,

Happy holidays to those that celebrate them,

Jip

## Balance

- (#5783) Revert the location of the UEF ACU teleport enhancement

There was an unforeseen strategy that one can apply when teleporting a UEF ACU with a Billy. The Billy enhancement now occupies the same slot as the teleport
enhancement again.

- (#5782) Cybran tactical missiles now split when they are intercepted by the Aeon TMD

In moderate quantities it can create a fascinating show to watch.

## Bug Fixes

- (7c624e, #5772) Fix rapid-fire on Aeon and Seraphim tech 2 stationary flak.

- (#5782) Fix the Aeon TMD being unable to prevent the Billy from exploding.

- (#5782) Fix the Aeon TMD firing its flare too late for incoming missiles.

Due to a bug, the Volcano had a target check interval of 1.0 seconds instead of 0.4 seconds, making it unable to reliably catch Seraphim tactical missiles due
to their speed.

- (#5782) Fix the Aeon TMD locking onto missiles that it can't intercept.

This would prevent other TMD with a better chance at intercepting the missile from locking on.

- (#5782) Fix the Aeon TMD not tracking its intercept count.

## Features

- (c696d43) Introduce a game option to scale strategic icons.

Also scales the pause and stun icons. Useful on monitors with high pixel density. A scale of 150% may distort the strategic icons.

- (9fd0b50) Add the ability to compute a detailed path for AIs.

The function is in `NavUtils.lua` and is named `DetailedPathTo`. The function is expensive in comparison to the standard `PathTo` function.

## Graphics

- (ff6c016) Add new, high-quality strata layers and decals.

These assets are available through the FAF editor after retrieving the latest patch. The new biome is named 'New Realms.'

## Other Changes

## Contributors

With thanks to the following people who contributed through coding:

- lL1l1
- Jip
- Basilisk3

With thanks to the following people who contributed through model, texture, description and effect changes:

- Sting

With thanks to the following people who contributed through binary patches:

- 4z0t
- KionX

And, last but certainly not least - with thanks to those that took part in constructive discussions:

- Sladow
- Sheikah
- Deribus
- CxZy
- Nex37
- Aranei
- Ravandel
- Youknowhedead
- Samofflive
- MostLostNoob
