# Game Version 3779 (21th of January, 2024)

A new year combined with new mechanics and behavior/bug fixes!

With gratitude to all those who took the time to report issues,

Happy holidays to those that celebrate them,

Jip

## Balance

- (#5815) Change to the target priorities of the Percival

The Percival will now prefer to fire at structures over firing at tech 1 units. The Percival now has similar targeting priorities as Snipers.

- (#5812, #5823) Improve the behavior of tactical missiles

The behavior of tactical missiles is improved across the board.

The targeting behavior now takes into account the full orientation of the unit. Previously it would only take into account the orientation across the XZ-plane. Tactical missiles are now noticeable more accurate against units that are on a slope.

The zig zag behavior is adjusted to reduce the amount of zig zagging right before impact. Tactical missiles that use zig zagging are now noticeable more accurate. Primarily applies to Aeon tactical missiles.

- (#5806) Adjust the economy behavior of the Scry ability of the Eye of Rhianne.

It now behaves similar to other economy-consuming abilities.

- (#5667) Adjust the movement behavior of the Seraphim sniper

The movement reduction of the sniper mode is now only applied when the main weapon is on cooldown. This reduces the amount of micro that is required to use the sniper.

- (#5805) Buff to the standard resource allocation of the Seraphim SACUs

The Seraphim faction does not have a Resource Allocation System (RAS) on their SACUs. Instead, the standard resource production of the Seraphim SACUs is higher than the SACUs of other factions. With these changes we buff the standard resource production to 3 mass/second and 200 energy/second.

This is an experimental change, we may tweak it in the near future.

- (#5795) Shrink the collision shape of air units when they are landed.

The collision shape of air units is relatively large in comparison to the size of the unit. As a result they act as a giant bullet sponge the moment they are on the ground. The collision shape is now shrinked while landed to match the size of the mesh of the unit.

- (#5785) Fix various projectiles being unable to impact the water surface.

Most notable projectiles of the UEF tech 2 Destroyer and various tactical missiles would not impact with the water surface.

- (#5827) Allow SACUs to have the COMMAND target priority

This change allows SACUs to enable snipe mode to target an ACU while moving.

- (#5834) Fix a bug with the salvo of the tech 3 submarine

Due to this bug the damage per second was reduced to 327 while it should be 363. This bug was introduced when the torpedo interactions were refactored in 2023.

- (#5834) Fix Aeon anti torpedo defenses firing two anti torpedo's at a single torpedo

- (#5836) Fix intel ranges being inaccurate

This is a complicated but interesting change. For the player intel is visualised as a perfect circle. For the engine however intel is processed in a grid. The grid is rather coarse - the size of a cell for vision is 2 walls and for all other types of (counter) intel it is 4 walls.

This has consequences. Imagine four units with a radar radius of 28, 29, 30 and 31. Visually it appears that the last unit with a radar radius of 31 provides more intel then the unit with a radar radius of 28. For the engine however, because the size of a cell in the intel grid is 4 walls large it doesn't matter - the units with 29, 30 and 31 radar range provide as much intel as the unit with 28 radar range.

With these changes we reviewed all intel radia and to make sure the value aligns with the value that the intel grid actually applies. As a result the intel radius of units may appear smaller, but for the engine they are the same. Therefore the intel radia that you see now are more accurate.

An extensive test suite is also introduced to keep the intel range sof units accurate as time passes.

- (#61) Increase the intel update frequency from 3 seconds to 0.5 seconds

In the average case intel would only update every 3 seconds (or 30 ticks). With thanks to an assembly patch intel now updates every 0.5 seconds (or 5 ticks). This impacts not just what you see as a player but also how quickly the weapons of your units may react to blips that suddenly pop up in their range.

- (#5836) Revert of the 15% global vision range increase as introduced by game version 3761

The vision range of various units were increased because of the slow update frequency of intel. With thanks to the assembly patch the update frequency of intel is increased with 600% and therefore we're reverting the global vision range increase.

- (#5848) Remove the friendly fire of the Ravager

- (#5789) Re-implement the Billy

The Billy no longer explodes when it collides with something in the first 2.5 seconds of its lifespan.

The damage of the Billy no longer pierces shields. This was introduced by accident and is now removed again.

## Bug Fixes

- (4c9b6b) Fix a bug that only triggers in the Nomads featured mod

- (#5818) Reduce the maximum attack radius of the Aeon Tactical Missile Defense (TMD)

The Volcano could try to intercept missiles that it would never be able to. Given that TMDs try not to overshoot their target it may cause other TMDs to ignore the missile.

- (6f3244) Fix a bug for the AI where the threat-based pathing would return an incorrect result.

- (#5809) Fix a bug for the AI where it would confuse the type of expansions, overspending significant because of it.

- (#5804) Fix the Shard being able to evade beams.

- (#5795) Fix air units losing essentially all water vision once they have landed once.

- (#5820) Fix a bug where the assist-to upgrade feature would not pause the structure due to network lag

- (#5831) Fix a bug that would break achievement progression.

- (#5829) Fix a bug when the Salem makes landfall

- (#5841) Fix a bug where units on the sea floor would not have the mass value of their wreckages reduced

- (460fcda) Fix a bug where players would be able to cheat units in co-op when playing alone

- (#5817) Fix a bug where the shared armies lobby option does not take into account random spawn positions

As a result, the 'shared' armies would be scattered across the map.

## Features

- (#5821) Add additional context-based templates

Involves templates for the Soothsayer, the Eye of Rhianne and the Salvation.

- (#5820) Add additional assist-to effects

You can now assist an tech 2 mass extractor with some adjacency to start an upgrade to tech 3.
You can now assist a radar to start an upgrade. Requires some of adjacency for a tech 2 radar.

You can enable/disable the behavior at the 'Commands' header of the 'Gameplay' tab of the game options.

- (#5832) Wrecks now warp back onto the map when units crash outside of the map

## Graphics

## Other Changes

- (#5826) Show decimals of the damage radius of weapons.

- (#5816) Show decimals of the build rate of units.

As an example, the build rate of a tech 3 engineer would previously show was '32' while it is actually '32.5'.

- (#5736) Fix the intel hotkey not showing for the Scry ability.

- (#5802) Add a silo hatch animation to the UEF ACU when it fires a missile.

There's a standard reload time that applies. This is most notable for the Billy. The hatch animation acts as a rough indication for this reload time.

- (#5811) Clarify the distinction between user created templates and context based templates

- (#5828) Fix various English descriptions of units.

- (#5830) Rework the frames per seconds counter to update less frequently

It now updates four times per second. The frame counter is moved from the left side to the right side of the screen.

## Contributors

With thanks to the following people who contributed through coding:

- lL1l1
- Jip
- Basilisk3

And, last but certainly not least - with thanks to those that took part in constructive discussions:
