# Game Version 3804

## Bug Fixes

- (#6002) Fix a bug where the map would not reveal at the end of the game

- (#6007) Fix Siren uselessly trying to repair units when assisting them

- (#6015) Fix a bug with capping extractors via the context-based templates feature

It was no longer possible to create the mass storage template for tech 2 or higher extractors with tech 1 engineers.

- (#6013) Fix an exploit with the copy/distribute orders feature

Via this feature one could assign attack orders to (mobile) units that you lack any form of intel of.

## Balance

<!-- Remove header when empty -->

## Features

- (#6009) Add separate hotkeys to select all normal bombers and all torpedo bombers

  They can be found in the Selection category of the hotkeys as "Select all Bombers (Normal)" and "Select all Bombers (Torpedo)".
  Selecting normal bombers excludes the Mercy, as it is a kamikaze missile.

- (#6015) Extend the context-based templates feature
- 
- (#6010) Add a hotkey label for the Attack Move button

- (#6015, #6016) Extend the context-based templates feature

The context-based templates feature generates and adjusts templates based on the context of your mouse. Globally speaking, this is one of two categories:

- (1) Mouse is over a unit or a build order

In this case the first template will always be the first buildable version of the unit that you're hovering over. Then additional templates may be introduced for common tasks, such as capping an extractor with storages.

The first 'template' acts like a color picker - it enables you to copy the unit you're hovering over and build more of them. 

- (2) Mouse is over a deposit, land or water

In this scenario you can easily create mass extractors, hydrocarbons and/or walled point defenses. 

## Graphics

<!-- Remove header when empty -->

## AI

<!-- Remove header when empty -->

## Other Changes

- (#6002) Simplify the setup for moderator events

- (#6001) Add missing categories to units with Anti-Torpedo defenses

- (#6012) Add missing categories to the CZAR

- (#6005) Remove the `BUILTBYEXPERIMENTALSUB` category from all units that previously had it. As this category was unused, the Tempest still functions as you would expect.

- (#6008) Remove unecessary category from the Brick

- (#6009) Add Mercy to the `BOMB` category alongside Fire Beetle. Remove Loyalist from the category as its Charge ability was removed.

  This allows category filtering to filter for Mercies.

## Contributors

With thanks to the following people who contributed through coding:

- Jip
- lL1l1
- apollodeathstar
- Relent0r
- Hdt80bro

With thanks to the following people who contributed through binary patches:

<!-- Remove when empty -->

With thanks to the following individuals who contributed through model, texture, and effect changes:

<!-- Remove when empty -->

And, last but certainly not least - with thanks to those that took part in constructive discussions:

- Basilisk3
