# Game Version 3807

Fixes various reported issues and removes the 1st april pranks from the game again.

With gratitude to all those who took the time to report issues,

Jip

## Bug Fixes

- (#6044) Fix Seraphim experimentals not appearing in the Notify settings window in normal games after having played Nomads.

- ([#73](https://github.com/FAForever/FA-Binary-Patches/pull/73)) Fix a memory leak where weak tables are not deallocated by the garbage collector

## Balance

- (#6040) Make veterancy requirements equal for presets and normal SACUs

Previously, the cost of enhancements for an SACU preset was added to the veterancy requirement of the unit, making it much harder to gain veterancy with them than manually upgraded SACUs.

## Graphics

- (#6036) Add custom 'foot fall textures' for the Ythotha

Previously the Ythotha would use the same texture that the ACU does, but scaled up. It now uses a custom made texture that better fits the shape. It's not perfect, if you're interested in improving it then do get in touch with us!

## Other Changes

- (#6037) Various smaller improvements to the additional unit details displayed when `Show Armament Detail in Build Menu` is enabled in the settings.

- (#6036) Reduce the lifetime of foot fall textures

They are now inline with tread marks, reduced from roughly 120 seconds to 4 - 8 seconds.

## Contributors

With thanks to the following people who contributed through coding:

- lL1l1
- Basilisk3
- Jip

With thanks to the following people who contributed through binary patches:

- 4z0t

With thanks to the following individuals who contributed through model, texture, and effect changes:

- Jip

And, last but certainly not least - with thanks to those that took part in constructive discussions:

- Deribus
- Aranei
- RarePleasure
