# Game Version 3809

## Bug Fixes

<!-- Remove header when empty -->

## Balance

- (#6073) Allow Mongoose and Hoplite to fire from transports.

- (#5901) Increase UEF T3 MAA's DPS and damage, and swap its speed with Aeon's T3 MAA.

  - Cougar: DPS: 176 -> 206, Damage per volley: 1200 -> 1400, Speed: 3.3 -> 3.5
  - Redeemer: Speed: 3.5 -> 3.3

  This brings its DPS closer in line with other factions, lets it 3 shot strategic bombers instead of 4 shot, and lets it better escort Titans/Parashields.
  Redeemer's extra speed wasn't very necessary for its role within Aeon, so it was chosen to be swapped with.

- (#5874) Fine tune the balance of the Tech 2 Navy stage.
    - Uashavoh: T2 Destroyer (XSS0201):
        - AntiTorpedo RateOfFire: 0.26 --> 0.3
    - Salem Class: T2 Destroyer (URS0201):
        - BackUpDistance: 5 --> 10
    - Cooper: T2 Torpedo Boat (XES0102):
        - Health: 1750 --> 2000

- (#5895) After receiving several buffs, the Seraphim Tech 3 Submarine Hunter has become too oppressive, especially in larger formations. These changes aim to bring it back in line, while keeping its identity.
    - Yathsou: T3 Submarine Hunter (XSS0304):
        - Damage: 290 --> 380
        - RateOfFire: 0.25 --> 0.22
        - MuzzleSalvoDelay: 0.7 --> 1
        - MuzzleSalvoSize: 5 --> 4
        - DPS: 363 --> 338
        - Torpedo Defense RateOfFire (x2): 0.15 --> 0.1

- (#6043) The `BuildRate` and `BuildTime` stats of all Radars and Sonars are updated to be more streamlined. The build time of Tech 2 Sonars is corrected to ensure it is not longer than that of Tech 3 Sonars. Tech 3 Sonars get their very low build time increased, to compensate for their Tech 2 counterparts being much quicker to build and providing more build power.
    - Tech 1 Radars
        - BuildRate: 14.08 --> 13
    - Tech 2 Radars
        - BuildRate: 21.46 --> 20
        - BuildTime: 845 --> 780
    - Tech 3 Radars
        - BuildTime: 2575 --> 2400
    - Tech 1 Sonars
        - BuildRate: 14.08 --> 13
        - BuildTime: 127.5 --> 125
        - BuildCostEnergy: 1275 --> 1250
    - Tech 2 Sonars
        - BuildRate: 15 --> 20
        - BuildTime: 1680 --> 780
        - BuildTime: 2120 --> 1040 (Seraphim)
    - Tech 3 Sonars
        - BuildTime: 750 --> 1200
        - BuildTime: 900 --> 1400 (Cybran)

## Features

<!-- Remove header when empty -->

## Graphics

<!-- Remove header when empty -->

## AI

- (#6046) Fix issue with T2 static artillery not receiving any surface threat during blueprint pass over.

## Other Changes

- (#5668, #6066) Rework Seraphim weapon modules
  
- (#6067) Fix a performance issue related to AIs and their transport logic

- (#6042) Improve annotations for `OnMotionHorzEventChange` and `OnMotionVertEventChange`

## Contributors

With thanks to the following people who contributed through coding:

- Relent0r
- Basilisk3
- Rowey
- Jip
- lLl1l1

With thanks to the following people who contributed through binary patches:

<!-- Remove when empty -->

With thanks to the following individuals who contributed through model, texture, and effect changes:

<!-- Remove when empty -->

And, last but certainly not least - with thanks to those that took part in constructive discussions:

<!-- Remove when empty -->
