---
layout: post
patch: "Major"
title: Game version 3810
permalink: changelog/3810
---

# Game Version 3810

## Bug Fixes

- Fix Ahwassa's bomb dealing full damage to ASF.
- Fix partially built units not transferring properly in Full Share.
- Fix a typo in the script file of the Seraphim Tech 3 Mass Fabricator.
- Fix the Seraphim Tech 3 Mass Fabricator's rotators not spinning down when production is disabled.

## Balance

- (#6073, #6094) Allow Mongoose to fire from transports.

- (#5895) After receiving several buffs, the Seraphim Tech 3 Submarine Hunter has become too oppressive, especially in larger formations. These changes aim to bring it back in line, while preserving its identity.

  - Yathsou: T3 Submarine Hunter (XSS0304):
    - Damage: 290 --> 380
    - RateOfFire: 0.25 --> 0.22
    - MuzzleSalvoDelay: 0.7 --> 1
    - MuzzleSalvoSize: 5 --> 4
    - DPS: 363 --> 338
    - Torpedo Defense RateOfFire (x2): 0.15 --> 0.1

- (#5883) Allow Chrono Dampener to fire immediately when a unit comes into range.

  Previously, Chrono was synced to game time to prevent stun locking. Now, units have a cooldown before they can be stunned by any Chrono, which prevents stun locking while allowing the new Chrono to be more responsive.

- (#5901) Increase UEF T3 MAA's damage and DPS, and swap its speed with Aeon's T3 MAA.

  - Cougar: T3 Mobile Rapid-fire AA Cannon (DELK002):
    - Damage per volley: 1200 --> 1400
    - DPS: 176 --> 206
    - Speed: 3.3 -> 3.5
  - Redeemer: T3 Mobile Missile Anti-Air (DALK003):
    - Speed: 3.5 -> 3.3

  This brings its DPS closer in line with other factions. It can now take out a strategic bomber in 3 salvo's instead of 4. And with the increased movement speed it can better keep up to Titans and Parashields. Swapping the speed with Redeemer maintains a semblance of faction diversity. Redeemer was chosen because it doesn't really need its speed due to asylums being far too quick (4.0) to keep up with, and harbingers being relatively slow at 3.0 speed.

- (#6060, #6296) Make static shields absorb ACU explosions.

  Static shields absorb full damage from ACU explosions. For example, this prevents ACU explosions from killing all engineers inside shielded bases/firebases.
  Mobile shields do not absorb damage from ACU explosions because the ACU explosion is an anti-snowball mechanic and it would be very unfair for Aeon and UEF T2 to ignore it.

  The structure part of static shields still takes reduced structure damage from ACU explosions.

- (#6104) Reduce the hit points of stationary tactical missile launchers (TML) and make them volatile.

  - HP: 1500 --> 900
  - Death Weapon
    - Damage: 750
    - AoE (UEF/Aeon/Sera): 2
    - AoE (Cybran): 3

- (#6103) Greatly increase Othuum's maneuverability and slightly increase the range of its short range guns to make it better in early T3 rushes and T3 raids.

  - Othuum: T3 Siege Tank (XSL0303):
    - TurnRate: 75 -> 90
    - MaxBrake: 2.85 -> 3.55
    - Bolters' range: 20 -> 22
    - Bolters' yaw speed: 120 -> 170
    - Thau cannon yaw speed: 90 -> 125

- (#6179) Increase Ilshavoh's max turn rate from 75 to 90 and on the spot turn rate from 45 to 90.

- (#6107) Absolver can no longer damage shields while they are disabled.

  Shields can now recharge as usual.

- (#6125) Increase the hitpoints of the Aeon Tech 1 MAA so that it can survive the first salvo of a Seraphim Tech 1 bomber.

  - Thistle: T1 Mobile Anti-Air Gun (UAL0104):
    - MaxHealth: 250 --> 265

- (#5874) Reduce the costs of the UEF Bubble Shield Upgrade.

  - Energy Cost: 70000 --> 45000
  - Mass Cost: 2000 --> 1400
  - Build Time: 1700 --> 1500
  - Shield
    - HP: 7000 --> 5000
    - Recharge Time: 60 --> 45
    - Regen Rate: 67 --> 60

- (#6140) Slightly buff the Seraphim Tech 2 gunship to better align it with its intended role as a 'Tech 2.5-unit'.

  - Vulthoo: T2 Gunship (XSA0203):
    - Damage (x2): 19.2 --> 20
    - MaxRadius (x2): 22 --> 24

- (#6141) Slightly buff the Hoplite by increasing the muzzle velocity of its rockets.

  - Hoplite: T2 Rocket Bot (DRL0204):
    - MuzzleVelocity: 20 --> 25

- (#6150) Reduce Salvation's maximum reload discount adjacency bonus from 42% to 20%.

  After being fixed a long time ago, the adjacency bonus made Salvation more effective than Mavor as a game ending artillery as recently discovered. Since Salvation's purpose is to be spammed en masse after a Paragon, and not to be built independently as a superior artillery piece, the adjacency bonus that makes building Salvation without Paragon overpowered is nerfed.

- (#5874) Fine tune the balance of the Tech 2 naval stage.

  - Uashavoh: T2 Destroyer (XSS0201):
    - AntiTorpedo RateOfFire: 0.26 --> 0.3
  - Salem Class: T2 Destroyer (URS0201):
    - BackUpDistance: 5 --> 10
  - Cooper: T2 Torpedo Boat (XES0102):
    - Health: 1750 --> 2000

- (#6235) Tone down the Tempest, as it has become too oppressive and snowballed too quickly. Most importantly, its extremely powerful depth charges now fire once every 6 seconds instead of once every 5 seconds and have a reduced range. Additionally, the amount of mass required for it to attain one level of veterancy is increased from 12k to 18k.

  - Tempest: Experimental Battleship (UAS0401):
    - Oblivion Cannon Damage: 8000 --> 10000
    - Oblivion Cannon RateOfFire: 0.1 --> 0.08
    - Harmonic Depth Charge MaxRadius: 80 --> 65
    - Harmonic Depth Charge RateOfFire: 0.2 --> 0.1667
    - Harmonic Depth Charge DPS: 420 --> 350
    - VeteranMassMult: 0.5 --> 0.75
  - Atlantis: Experimental Aircraft Carrier (UES0401):
    - TurnRate: 12 --> 18
    - VeteranMassMult: 0.5 --> 0.75

- (#6252) A bug fix reverts a 1.2 -> 1.3 second reload time increase for the following unit weapons:

  - Megalith proton cannons, CZAR AA missiles, Pillar cannons, and Cybran cruiser AA.

- (#6202) Increase the energy maintenance cost of the Barracuda (Cybran T2 Sub) from 30 to 45. This makes it more of a choice to enable the stealth, similar to how it is for the Cybran ASF.

- (#6211) Increase the velocity and lifetime of the Wailer's AA-missiles, since they often expired before they were able to reach their target.

  - Wailer: T3 Heavy Gunship (XRA0305):
    - MuzzleVelocity: 13 --> 22
    - ProjectileLifetime: 2.0 --> 2.4

- (#6043) The `BuildRate` and `BuildTime` stats of all Radars and Sonars are updated to be more streamlined. The build time of Tech 2 Sonars is corrected to ensure it is not longer than that of Tech 3 Sonars. Tech 3 Sonars get their very low build time increased, to compensate for their Tech 2 counterparts being much quicker to build and providing more build power.

  - Tech 1 Radars:
    - BuildRate: 14.08 --> 13
  - Tech 2 Radars:
    - BuildRate: 21.46 --> 20
    - BuildTime: 845 --> 780
  - Tech 3 Radars:
    - BuildTime: 2575 --> 2400
  - Tech 1 Sonars:
    - BuildRate: 14.08 --> 13
    - BuildTime: 127.5 --> 125
    - BuildCostEnergy: 1275 --> 1250
  - Tech 2 Sonars:
    - BuildRate: 15 --> 20
    - BuildTime: 1680 --> 780
    - BuildTime: 2120 --> 1040 (Seraphim)
  - Tech 3 Sonars:
    - BuildTime: 750 --> 1200
    - BuildTime: 900 --> 1400 (Cybran)

- (#6082) The `BuildRate` and `BuildTime` statistics of several shield generators are updated to be more streamlined. The Seraphim Tech 2 Shield Generator gains build power, as it previously had a very low amount. The Aeon Tech 2 Shield Generator loses its build power, as it cannot be upgraded.

  - Tech 2 Shield Generators:
    - BuildRate: 13.66 --> 0 (Aeon)
    - BuildRate: 12.98 --> 20 (Seraphim)
    - BuildRate: 19.95 --> 20 (UEF)
  - Tech 3 Shield Generators:
    - BuildTime: 5841 --> 5800 (Seraphim)
    - BuildTime: 4988 --> 5000 (UEF)

## Features

- Make various structures easier to place to help with base building.

  - All Tech 3 Power Generators, Tech 3 Mass Fabricators, Tech 3 Artilleries, Shield Structures, Land Factories and Air Factories:
    - MaxGroundVariation: 1.0 -> 1.1
  - All Game Enders except for the Scathis:
    - MaxGroundVariation: 1.0 -> 1.2

## AI

- Fix issue with T2 static artillery not receiving any surface threat during blueprint pass over.

## Other Changes

- Rework Seraphim weapon modules
- Refactor collision beam modules
- Fix a performance issue related to AIs and their transport logic
- Clean up the blueprint-files of various structures.
- Improve annotations for `OnMotionHorzEventChange` and `OnMotionVertEventChange`
- Annotate the shield assist mechanics of `RegenAssistMult`
- Ensure that the Cooper's hitbox aligns with its model
- Reduce the amount of logging performed by the game. This should have a positive impact on performance.
- Count cargo for veterancy when a transport or carrier is killed
- Improve the targeting of the Tempest's anti-torpedo weapon.

## Contributors

With thanks to the following people who contributed through coding:

- Relent0r
- Basilisk3
- Rowey
- Jip
- lLl1l1
