---
layout: post
title: Game version 3811
permalink: patches/3811
---

# Game version 3811 (3th of August, 2024)

Fixes various bugs and inconsistencies that were reported by players.

With kind regards,

BlackYps

## Balance

- (#6339) Balance changes to the Fatboy

In general the Fatboy has been in an awkward position for a while now. With these changes we try to mitigate some of the perceived issues while preserving the identity of the Fatboy.

- The shield is improved to increase its survivability and durability on the battlefield.

  - ShieldRechargeTime: 120 -> 75
  - ShieldRegenRate: 100 -> 200

- The anti air guns are stronger and have more range to allow it to fend off stray air units.

  - Range: 45 -> 55
  - Damage: 20 -> 40

- The (collision) size is reduced by roughly 5% - 7% to make artillery less viable.

  - UniformScale: 2.22 -> 2.15
  - ShieldSize: 25 -> 24
  - SizeX: 5.5 -> 5.2
  - SizeY: 1.5 -> 1.4
  - SizeZ: 8.0 -> 7.2

- (#6360) Increase the hitboxes of a wide range of units to fix them being able to evade torpedoes due to their hitbox being too shallow. Lots of units, such as ships or Cybran/UEF engineers, have part of their hitboxes below ground level to enable torpedo weapons to damage them when on water. Prior to this PR however, the hitboxes of many units were not submerged deep enough into the water, which caused torpedoes to not be able to hit them reliably. This was the case for almost 30 units, most notably the Cooper, but also all movable and immovable Sonars.

  - Change the `CollisionOffsetY` of all affected units from `-0.25` to `-0.375`
  - Increase the `SizeY` of the affected units accordingly, to prevent their hitbox from becoming too short.

  This change does have balance implications, especially in the case of the Cooper, since the bug caused this unit to receive damage from torpedoes both later and less often.

## Features

- (#6309) The movement speed of transports now changes based on how many and which types of units they have loaded.

  - Units slow down transports based on their `TransportSpeedReduction` stat. If a unit has a `TransportSpeedReduction` of 1, each instance of this unit will slow down the transport's `MaxAirspeed` by 1. The primary implication of this change is that the effectiveness of the currently too oppressive Zthuee drops is reduced in an intuitive way. The effectiveness of ACU drops via Tech 2 transports remains unchanged.

    - TransportSpeedReduction: 0.15 (Tech 1 land units)
    - TransportSpeedReduction: 0.3 (Tech 2 land units)
    - TransportSpeedReduction: 0.6 (Tech 3 land units)
    - TransportSpeedReduction: 1 (ACUs and SACUs)
    - TransportSpeedReduction: 1 (Tech 4 land units for compatibility with survival maps)

  - To prevent drops from being nerfed too much by this change, the speeds of all transports is increased.

    - MaxAirspeed: 10 --> 10.75 (Tech 1 transports)
    - MaxAirspeed: 13.5 --> 14.5 (Tech 2 transports)
    - MaxAirspeed: 15 --> 17.5 (The Continental)

- (#6309) Display the `TransportSpeedReduction` stat in the additional unit details displayed when `Show Armament Detail in Build Menu` is enabled in the settings.

- (#6363) When an army is defeated, transfer all unbuilt units instead of only Experimentals and T3 Arty.
  - When a unit fails to rebuild because its build site was blocked (for example a unit in factory), the mass invested is returned as a wreck.

## Bug fixes

- (#6321) Fix the Yolona's missile staying underground after being shared to another player.

- (#6329) Fix the selection box of the Uyanah (Seraphim T3 Lightning Tank) being unusually thin. Fix the life bar and selection box of the Vulthoo (Seraphim T2 Gunship) not lining up with its model. The Vulthoo was made physically larger in a previous patch.

AI - Fixed a bug with recording a platoon's plan and certain other platoon related logic

- (#6337) Fixed a bug where HotBuild keybindings did not reset to the first unit/building in the cycle when the key was pressed again.
- (#6342) Fix an error related to the blinking lights of structures

- (#6345) Fix a bug where the air-to-ground weapons of Bombers would break

- (#6345) Fix a bug where the Scorcher can freeze the simulation indefinitely

- (#6364) Fix the game crashing when enabling auto-overcharge with a non-Seraphim SACU selected.

## AI

- (#6292) Create base state machine files for AI engineer utility machine, update state machine for tml.

- (#6390) Fix a bug in the navigational mesh that could significantly slow down the simulation

When we generate a navigational mesh the map is split into areas of terrain that units can walk over. This is done for each of the four layers (land, water, hover and amphibious). Heightmaps can be noisy, and therefore there can be thousands of tiny (the size of a wall) areas scattered across the map. These areas are to be culled, reducing the number of areas to take into account by a significant factor. Think in terms of going from 6000+ areas to (usually) less then 10. The culling did not work however.

Some computations of the AI take into account the number of areas. These computations would blow up with thousands of areas, significantly slowing down the simulation.

## Contributors

With thanks to the following people who contributed through coding:

- BlackYps
- Rowey
- lL1l1
- Jip
- Basilisk3
- Maudlin27
- ErikMekkes
- Relent0r

With thanks to the following people who contributed through binary patches:

- hdt80bro
