---
layout: post
title: Game version 3823
permalink: changelog/3823
---

# Game version 3823 (25th of May 2025)

Fixes various reported issues. In particular, campaign/coop should work again!

With gratitude to all those who took the time to report issues,

Jip

## Features

- (#6784) Units that are under construction now disperse veterancy when the factory is destroyed.

  A similar behavior applies to the cargo of a transport. The unit that destroyed the transport receives the veterancy value of the cargo of the transport. This behavior is now also applied to units that are under construction by a factory. The unit that destroyed the factory receives the veterancy value of the unit under construction.

- (#6784) Units built in external factories now create a wreck when they are above 50% completion.

  An example of a unit with an external factory is the Fatboy. With these changes the behavior of external factories match those of regular factories. 

## Bug fixes

- (#6784) Implement proper transfer of unbuilt units in factories.

  Previously, unbuilt units inside factories would be rebuilt on the ground after a transfer, and this would only happen after an army is defeated. It was awkward to finish rebuilding the unit and it could block the factory.  
  Now, unbuilt units are rebuilt inside the new factory like with any other factory build, and this happens with all ownership transfers.

- (#6807) Fix an error when units with 0 fire rate are shared.

  This applies for example to the Seraphim Sniper Bot (XSL0305).

- (#6809) Fix the disconnection delay option using the title/description texts of the disconnect ACU share option.

- (#6810) Fix fullshare not working when a player disconnects in matchmaker games

- (#6813) Fix an issue in co-op where the cinematic mode would not exit
  
- (#6814) Fix air units and structures being attached to transports through scripts causing an error.

- (#6814) Fix transports becoming immobile or moving backwards.

  The cargo of transports slow down the transport. There was no limitation to this slowdown. As a result, the experimental transport of the Nomads faction would have the unusual behavior of moving backwards. Now, all transports will at a minimum have 30% of their original speed,

- (#6816) Fix `WrapText` not picking up single trailing characters after newlines.

- (#6819) Fix units not pausing after using the assist-to-upgrade feature

  With these changes we revert it to the old duration of waiting 5 ticks before pausing. We can look into it properly with the next major release.

## Other changes

- (#6801) Small hotfix for Traditional Chinese translations.

  Fix some incorrect localizations.

- (#6813) Rework announcements from the ground up

  With this rework they become much more easier to maintain. It's now also much easier to make more specific announcements with more rich content such as images.

## Contributors

With thanks to the following people who contributed through coding:

- Yuchenjimmy
- Nomander
- Jip
